To create a donor chant all we have to do is add a bit more code to this cell here.
So when a copy yet pasted below so I've cut our original pie chart that I'm going to leave as it is.
And here I'm going to add my additional code.
The code I'm going to add is drawing a circle onto our chart a white circle that is so create a variable
called center on the school circle which is going to hold on to my circle and use matte plot lib to
create a circle PDT dots circle with a capital C. open parentheses.
And now we have to supply some arguments.
Let me hit shift tab on the circle to take a look at the quick documentation.
So our circle requires one input one input is mandatory to create it and it basically needs to know
where to center the circle.
It needs an x and the y coordinate in these parentheses like so.
So we're gonna give it a tuple of these coordinates.
I'm just gonna center it.
0 0 and that's it.
Let's add the circle to our figure.
So I say PDT dot GCA parentheses dot and artist parentheses center circle.
Now let me hit shift enter and what we get is something like this.
What's going on.
Well our circle is probably too big it's not size correctly so we'll have to supply a radius.
I'm going to make the circle a lot smaller.
Make it zero point six for the radius and hit shift enter.
Much better right.
We've got the circle now sitting in the middle of our pie chart.
The only problem is is that this circle is blue and it looks looks very very odd.
So let's make it white.
That way we can do that is by supplying this color as an argument to a parameter called FC FC is equal
to white.
We'll set the color of the circle to white.
Now we've got something that looks a bit more like this.
This is done look a lot better right.
The only thing is our offset doesn't quite work anymore.
It makes it look very very strange.
So I'm going to delete the explode argument him on our pie chart and refresh our graph.
There we go.
Not bad but I do want to move these percent labels back up here on our pie chart.
We can do that with an argument called percent distance PCG distance all in lower case and if I set
that to zero point eight then my percent labels start moving out and they're more or less centered now
in their segment of the donut chart.
Now I'm fairly happy with this design.
Let's review the code a little bit.
We created a circle using matte plot lib so appeal.
Dot circle is our equivalent of PD dot data frame and then we've supplied a couple of inputs.
We've supplied color we've supplied a size of the circle and we've supplied where that circle should
be drawn at 0 0.
It's completely centered then what we did is we had to add this circle to our figure.
So with T dot GCA we get the current axes so we're getting the current axes and we're adding the circle
with the add artist method to the axes.
So that adds the circle to our figure which means it gets drawn on top of our pie chart.
Okay so we've almost mastered the donut chart.
The only thing that I really want to show you is how to draw a doughnut chart with more than two categories.
Because oftentimes these don't a chance really come into the fore when you have three four or five categories
then they start looking really really great in all sorts of reports.
So just as an exercise let's create a donut chart with four categories.
Copy this so paste it below so I'm keeping the original and working off this one and I'm going to add
a few more category names so see updates and promotions.
Now since we have four categories I'm going to have to update my list of sizes as well.
And I'm just gonna make up these numbers here for the amount of spam legitimate emails updates and promotions.
So say we have twenty five spam emails and I don't know 43 legitimate emails 19 updates and 22 promotions.
So we've got that.
Now it's just a matter of picking the colors we can keep the red and blue but we have to add two more
colors that fit well with this palette.
Going back to our American palate from Flat UI colors I think I'm going to go for the light green and
maybe the sour lemon here.
The yellow.
So I'm going to copy this update our list here making sure that the hex code of the colors and single
quotes and copy the sour lemon for the promotions.
There you go.
Now I've got my four categories.
Let me hit shift enter and see what this looks like at the moment.
Not bad right.
But what if we wanted to have a small gap between each of these categories.
What if we wanted to explode the doughnut chart the way we've exploded our pie chart and the easiest
way to do this is to create another list of values say offset is equal to square brackets and then maybe
zero point zero five zero point zero five zero point zero five.
I'll make the offset equal between all of the all of the categories zero point zero five as well.
Then for the pie chart we'll just say explode as equal to offset.
Now let me hit shift enter and look at our results.
Brilliant.
And that's really all there is to it.
I think pie charts are They're simple they're clear they're easy to code up but you can also make them
look very very good with the right choice of colors and a little thought on the formatting having them
some cute visualizations in the past lessons.
It's now time to return to do some hardcore programming in the next couple of lessons.
We're going to be looking at natural language processing.
We can't just feed raw e-mail bodies into our machine learning algorithm.
We need to prepare these e-mails for our base classified to work.
I'd say this that probably falls a bit more into the data cleaning part of the project but it will equip
you with some very very powerful tools and techniques to tackle all kinds of tax data that you're gonna
be encountering on your personal projects as well.
Natural Language Processing is a huge topic and super lucrative and super interesting.
So I hope you're as excited as I am for the next section.
I'll see you in the next lessons.
Take care.